systems thinking and walking:



activity:
verbs used:
to engage in an activity
to be involved in an activity






ontological taxonomy:
physical activity is an activity:
a low intensity physical actvity is a physical activity.
walking is an outdoor activity
walking is an outdoor low intensity pysical activity


ontological taxonomy:
social activity is an activity.
walking can be a social activity.


systems involved:

1-human biological systems:

1-1 endocrine system:


modifier:
walking as a low intensity outdoor physical acitvity is associated with lower levels of stress hormones.


ontological taxonomy:
endocrine hormones are hormones. 

ontological taxonomy
stress hormones are endocrine hormones.
cortisol is a stress hormone.
epinephrine is a stress hormone.
norepinephrine is a stree horomone.

decomposition: 
cortisol, epinephrine, and norepinephrine fall into the category of stress hormones.



1-2: blood glucose regulatin system

ontoloical taxonomy:

Insulin is a blood glucose regulation hormone. 
Glucagon is a blood glucose regulation hormone. 



Insuling causes the uptake, storage and use of glucose by muscles, adipose tissue and liver. 
This leads to a reduction in blood glucose concentration. 

Glucagon leads to the breakdown of liver glycogen. 
This leads to a increase in blood glucose concentraton. 


modifier:
walking as a low intensity outdoor physical activity is linked to a better blood glucose management. 
walking is associated with a reduction in insulin blood levels. 
walking is associtaed with an increase in glucogon blood levels. 




1-3 nervous system:



brain chemicals:
growth factors are brain chemicals.
neurotrophins are growth factors.
brain-derived neurotrophic factors are neurotrophins.

BDNF is associated with the generation of new neuron cells, called neurogenesis. 



modifier:
walking as a low intensity outdoor physical acitvity is linked to the generation of new neuron cells, 
called neurigenesis. 
walking as a low intensity outdoor physical acitvity correlates with higher levels of BDNF. 


1-4: visceral motor system:
an increase in heartrate is a visceral motor system activity
an increase in skin temperature is a visceral motor system activity
sweating is a viceral motor system activity
an increase in cutenous blood flow is a visceral motor system activity
gut motility is a visceral motor system activity 

walking as a low intensity outdoor physical acitvity is associated with visceral motor system activities. 


Environmental psychological system:

ontological taxonomy:

sunlight is nature exposure

natural sounds are nature exposure
birdsong is a natural sound


nature fragrance is nature exposure
plant fragrance is nature fragrance
flower fragrance is plant fragrance
rose fragrance is flower fragrance

tree fragrance is plant fragrance 
citrus fragrance is tree fragrance
pine gragrance is tree fragrance

limbic system:
amygdala is a component of the limbic system
amygdala plays a key role in the experience and expression of emotion



mood and resotration chemicals are body chemicals
serotonin is a mood and restoration chemical.
endorphines are mood and restoration chemicals.



modifier:


nature exposure is associated a better mood.
nature exposure is associated with highr levels of serotonin and endorphins.   
 

nature exposure reduces stress. 
nature exposure reduces amygdala reactivity, lowers cortisol, and enhances parasymapthetic tone. 


sunlight exposure regulate body's circadian rhythm
regulated circadian rythm promotes cortisol awaking response in the morning and timely melatonin onset at night.

soical cognition:

oxytocin is considered a social interaction chemical

ontological taxonomy:

possitive social exchanges are social interactions
greetings are social interactions
positive social cues are social interactions

ontological taxonomy:
smiles, nods, gazes are all social cues. 

modifiers:
positive social exchanges are  linked to higher levels of oxytocin
percieved social inclusion is associated with stabalized serotonin function
stabalzed serotonin function promotes emotional resilience


