at kind of bills do you have to pay?

reasoning tree:
Economic inputs are governemnt inputs.
Non-tax revenues are economic inputs.
Service fees are non-tax revenues.
Bills are service fees. 

reasoning tree: 
Public services are government outputs.
Infrastructure services are public services.
Utilities are infrastrcture services.
Utilities are grouped into these categories: core utilities, communcation utilities, public infrustucture
utilities, and environmental utilities.




Government inputs are required for its ouputs.
Economic inputs are required for public services.
No-tax revenues are required for infrastructure services.
Service fees are required for utilities.
Bills are requied for core utilities.
Electricity bill is required for electricity.
Water bill is required for water supply.
Gas bill is required for natural gas. 



result: 
Non tax revenues generated through public fees help the economic equilibrium. 
 



Core utilities comprise electricity, water supply, natural gas, garabage collection, and swage and wastewater services. 
Landline telephony, internet access, mobile network are recognized as subcategories within the broader classification of communication utilities.
Storm drianage, public lighting, and traffic systems fall into the category of public infrastructor utilities.
Recycling, renewable grid, smart energy monitoring, and green water sysetms are considered distinct types within the domain of enviromenatal utilities.   


Provision:
Core, infrastructur, and environmental utilities are provided by the government.
Communication utilities are typically provided by the private sector. 

 


Residents are billed monthly. 
Residents directly pay the bills for core and communcation utilities. 





Individuals are social entities. 
Residents are individuals.
I am a resident. 


Government is a systemic social entity.For a system to gain stability, there must be an equilibrium between its inputs and ouputs. 

There are various public services provided, by the goverment, some of which require fees. These fees are classified as non-tax 
revenues, which themselves are recognized as subcategories of economic inputs. However, the requirement to pay for these services does not apply
to all types of utilities. Indeed, utilities could be grouped into core, communication, infrastructure, and environment categories, among which
the payment for the core group, consisting mainly of electricity, water supply, natural gas, is direct, with residents billed monthly. For 
this fiscal system to have stability, a balance beteen inputs and ouputs is a must. 



