time division comparison pattern


The most symplistic approach to explain a line graphs consists primarily of three parts:
1- the explanation of the starting point
2- a general explanation of the line itself inlcluding its direction and either its magnitude or slope
3- the explanation of its ending point

Ex:
Chicken consumption started at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979.
Chicken consumption increased dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years.
Chicken consumption eneded at approximately 250 grams in 2004.




We will discuss different algorithms of time division comparison pattern using this sample, starting
with adv-clause based description.

parallel-structure based description:

Chicken consumption started at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, and it increased
dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years, and it ended at 250 grams in 2004.

in the previous sentence, there are three independent clauses, all of which are connected using
'and' which is a coordinating conjucntion. 

However, with 'it' being redundant, we make a parrallel structure, connecting only verb phrases:

Chicken consumption started at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, increased
dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years, and ended at 250 grams in 2004.

But there is a problem with this type of description. What do you think the problem is???

In fact, desite the fact that events happen after one another in  chronological order, time is not 
really linguistcally expressed between them. In other words, adverbial functions are absent between
the items in the parallel structure. 

adv-function based description:

To have a firmer grasp of adverbial functions, you may take a look at the table created by Tehranian
polymath regarding  adverbial functions. 


To demonstrate adverbial functions absolutely crucial for writing and reading, we have invented a
flowchart made of rectangles connected by adverbial arrows introduced in the table. 

Ex:




Now, let's connect the clauses, having taken account of structures from the table.
 

After chicken consumption started at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, 
it increased dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years. Then, it eneded at approximately 250
grams in 2004.

The syntactic skeleton of the previous sentence is as follows: 
an adverb clause, an independent clause. a conjunctive adverb, an independent clause. 

Again, to avoid redundancy, we have to cast aside 'it'. But this time, we won't leverage parallel
structure using 'and', a coordinating conjucntion. Instead, we will use our adverbial tools, with
reductions bein one of them. 

Indeed, one of the advantages of using adveb clauses is the miracle of reduction. If the subjects of
the adverb clause and the independent clause are the same, there is no reason to use the the same
subject twice. Hence, we can reduce the adverb clause into a phrase. 

After  starting at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, chicken consumption increased dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years. Then, it eneded at approximately 250 grams in 2004.

Even though the last clause following 'then' is an indepent clause, we can reduce it. This is
perhaps because this clause is adverbially connected to the previous sentence.

After  starting at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, chicken consumption increased dramatically by 100
grams over the next 25 years, ending at approximately 250 grams in 2004.



Though too complicated for most learner, a perfect phrase can be a more sophisticated version of
reduction:

Having  started at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, chicken consumption increased dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years. Then, it eneded at approximately 250 grams in 2004.


adj-function based description:
Remeber variety is the spice of life, with adjective clauses, linguisitically, being a prime
candidates for this diversity. Another type of clause which might help you write line graphs is
adjective clauses. 

Ex:
Chicken consumption, which started at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, increased
dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years.

reduced version:

Chicken consumption, starting at almost 145 grams per person per week in 1979, increased
dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years.

Sadly,however, adjective clauses cannot assist use adding the last sentence. Therefore, we should starting
combining types of descriptions so that ...


abstract-noun-phrase based description

We can use this type of description for neither  the starting point nor the ending point, with the
middle part of our algorithm being the only target for this type of description.

Chicken consumption increased dramatically by 100 grams over the next 25 years. 

An abstract noun phrase is the result of nominalization whereby a clause is converted into an
abstract noun phrase. To have a deep understanding of an abstract noun phrase, you may read the
article on nominalization. 

The first step is to use the noun version of 'to increase dramatically' -> 'a dramatic increase'

The second step is to add the subject of the clause 'chicken consumption' into our abstract noun,
transmuting it into an abstract noun phrase -> a dramatic incrase in chicken consumption

The third step is to add the numerical value using 'of' placed in the middle:

a dramatic increase of 100 grams in chicken consumption

But the question is where we can use this abstract noun phrase. In other words, abstract noun
phrases can not stand on their own. Indeed, they can be added to other types of descriptions. 





