
People consumed beef. Now, we want to add the verb 'decrease sharply' to this sentence. But the question is how?
One way is to use 'this' which refers to the previous sentence.
People consumed chicken. This decreased sharply. But 'this' may cause ambiguity. Right!!

The question is how we avoid this ambiguity??

Well, the answer lies in a very important aspect of language called 'nominaliztion'.

Here is how nominaliztion works.

First of all, we should ask ourselves whehter it is   necessary to use 'people' as the subject???
In other words, the whole point of the previous sentence is consuming chicken. This is
where nominalization, creating abstract noun phrases,  might come in handy.

the algorithm:

to consume(verb phrase) ->  the consumption(abstract noun derived from a verb)

with "cosume" being a transitive verb, we need to add an object to it.
to consume beef -> the consumption of beef.

Indeed, beef is the object of consumption, with the type being called 'of phrase object'.
The power to express more with fewer words, however, is the purpose of professional
language use. So we can cast aside 'the' and 'of' by putting beef before consumption.
beef consumption

So far so good!!

Beef consumption decreased sharply in 1984.

Now look at the next sentece:
Beef consumption increased marginally in 1985.

With these two events happening in consecutive years, we should connect the sentnece by a
very handy verb, 'follow'.

But follow is a verb. We have two sentences(two independent clauses).
Let's anaylze what 'follow' as a verb needs.

a subject + follow + an object

(Beef consumption decreased sharply) followed (Beef consumption incrased marginall)

How can we tackle this problem signifies the importance of nominaliztion, again.
Therefore, we have to nominalize the clause preceding and following the verb 'follow'.

to decrease sharply -> a sharp decrease(a noun phrase)
Beef consumption incrased sharply -> a sharp decrease in beef consumpton(an abstract noun phrase
whose subject is 'in phrase form', more specifically, beef consumption.

result:

a sharp decrease in beef consumption follows a margianll decrease (in beef consumption)


