Time Division Comparison Pattern:

with an overview focusing on trends
with an overview focusing on how dramatic trends are
with an over focsing on list comparison pattern

Based on Tehranian Polymath's methodology, generally speaking, comparison patterns could be either
interanl or external. If you see only one line on a graph, having taken time divisions into account,
you may compare the line with itself.However, if you zome out, you can see the big picture. This big picture could be lablled as the overall trend.  

The overall trend could appear in four different states: upward(adj), downward(adj),
volatile(adj), and stable(adj). With these states being all adjectives, we can write our first
formula regarding line graphs:

the + overall + trend + to be(is, are , was, were) + states(upward, downward, volatile, stable)

Ex: 
the overall trend is stable

But the overall trend of what???

In fact, this formula dosen't work because every line on a graph represents a subject whose name
should be included in our formula. But how can we add the name of the item in question to our
formula. Well, the answer lies in a preposition whose funcion is adjectival, modifying the overall
trend. In this case, the preposition that can be used universally is 'in'. 

Thus, lets' revise our formula:

the + overall + trend + in + the item in question + to be + state adjectives(upward, downward,
volatile, stable)

Now, we can add the name of the item in question(for example, chicken consumption)

The overall trend in chicken consumption was upward.

To make the proccess more practical, let's write an overview for a task1 IELTS question. 

Ex: book7, test2

Fish and meat cosumption 

There are four items each of which has a unique overall trend. 

It is time to use our formula.

the + overall + trend + in + the item in question + to be + state adjectives(


The overall trend in chicken consumption was upward.
The overall trend in lamb consumption was downward.  
The overall trend in beef consumpton was volatile.
The overall trend in fish consumption was stable.

So far so good!!

But variety is the spice of life. With all these sentences following the same pattern, the reader
may find himself repeating the same structure. Therefore, let's rearrange the pieces of  puzzle. 

the formula:
there + to be + an + overall + state adjectives + trend + in + the item in question

Upward and downward trends:
There was an overall downward trend/trajectory/movement in lamb consumption.
There was an overall upward trend/trajectory/movement in chicken consumption.

Volatility:
There was an overall volatile trend in beef consumption.
or
There was volatility in chicken consumption (overall trend)*.
There were fluctuations in beef consumption (overall trend)*.


Stability:
There was an overall stable trend in chicken consumption.
There was stability in chicken consumption (overall trend)*.

*You had better avoid using "overall trend" in these examples.  

We may even use the items in question as the subject of our sentence, with 'deomstrative verbs' being
the main verbs.

the formula:
the item in question + show/exhibit/demonstrate + an + overall + state adjectives + trend


Lamb consumption showed/followed* an overall downward trend/trajectory.
Chicken consumption exhibited/followed* an overall upward trend/movement.
Beef consumption demonstrated an overall volatile trend.
Fish consumption showed an overall stable trend.

*'follow' might be used only for upward and downward trends


We may also use the 'overall trend' modified by 'in'  to conver all the items in question
as the subject of our sentence.
 
the formula:
The + overall + trend + in + item + showed/exhibited/demonstrated + a state noun phrase

The overall trend in lamb consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated a downward movement/trajectory.
The overall trend in chicken consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated an upward movement/trajectory.
The overall trend in lamb consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated volatility/fluctuations. 
The overall trend in fish consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated consistency/statbility. 


Since stability is a sign of neutrality, a linking verb, which expresses neither an action nor an
emotion,  can be used, with the predicate being an adjective, in this case 'constant'. 
The overall trend in fish consumption remained constant.


antoher formual:
an + state ajective + trend + in + item in question + passive verbs(expressing observation).

An overall downward trend in lamb consumption was observed.
An overall upward trend in chicken consumption was observed.
An overall volatile trend in beef consumption was observed.
An overall stable trend in fish consumption was observed. 


Five patterns for overall trend has been discussed so far. There are four items in question. To
write a paragraph, we should assing each item a pattern. Then, start writing:






Now, we need to avoid the redundancy at first by casting aside 'overall'.

To do that, we may use 'overall' as a sentence adverb, modifying the entire paragraph.

Before elminiation:
Overall, the trend in chicken consumpton was upward.
The (overall) trend in lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were fluctuations in beef consumption (overall) trend. 
The (overall) trend in fish consumption remaned constant.

After elimination:
Overall, the trend in chicken consumpton was upward.
The trend in lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were fluctuations in beef consumption trend. 
The trend in fish consumption remained constant.

'Trend' is also used in the first and second sentence. So we may eliminate 'trend' from the second
third, and forth sentences. 

Before elminiation:
Overall, the trend in chicken consumpton was upward.
(The trend) in lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were fluctuations in beef consumption (trend). 
The (trend) in fish consumption remaned constant.

After elminiation:
Overall, the trend in chicken consumpton was upward.
Lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were fluctuations in beef consumption. 
Fish consumption remained constant.


After the removal of redundant words, our paragraph is ready for the next step in which we can connect
clauses and sentences. But to connect clauses and sentences, we have to understand the relationship
between them. To view the full list of adverbial functions, you may click on the following link to
see the Tehranian Polymath's table classifying adverbial functions. 

If you look at the first sentence and second sentence, you can see 'upward and downward', which is a
clear sign of contrast. So let's use the contrast arrow from  our table to visualize the
relationship. 


It is time to look at the arrow of the table, choosing one of the options.
Overall, the trend in chicken consumption was upward, while lamb consumption exhibited a downward
movement. 

Now we have a sentence, with the first clause being independent and the second dependet(adverb).


Look at the rest of the paragraph, where you can see 'fluctuations and consistency(constant)'. Again, contrast
is plainly visible between these two words. Let's again use a contrast arrow to show the adverbial
relationship.


It is time to look at the arrow of the table, choosing one of the options.
There were fluctuations in beef consumption, whereas fish consumption remained constant. 

Look at our last update on our paragraph:
Overall, the trend in chicken consumption was upward, while lamb consumption exhibited a downward
movement. There were fluctuations in beef consumption, whereas fish consumption remained constant. 

There are two sentences, each of which has an idependent clause followed by an adverb clause.
But the first sentence places a particular emphasis on upward and downward trends, while the second
second sentence the two other overall trends are being compared. Hence, we can visualize the
relationship between the two sentences as well.

 Overall, the trend in chicken consumption was upward, while lamb consumption exhibited a downward
movement. Conversely, there were fluctuations in beef consumption, whereas fish consumption remained
constant. 

Now we have two senetences, each of which has two clauses, with the sentences themselves being
connected semantically through a conjunctive adverb. 

 
However, there can be still a minor improvment in our paragraph. With 'consumption' being used
redundantly, we had better find an alternative for it. 

To tackle the problem, there are serveral ways. But Tehranina Polymath is going to use this case as
an excuse to explain a very important technique in modern English for the avoidance of redundancy. 


'that':
Indeed, 'that ' is popular pronoun in English for refraining from repeating the same word. But to use 'that
' we should understand the formula.  

Look at the candidates for which 'that' can be used as an alternative: 

chicken consumption
lamb consumption 
beef consumption 
fish consumption 

'that', interestingly, can be align with a proposition to tackle these issues, with the most common
type being 'that of'

But to do that, we have to make sure that 'that of' can be used instead of 'consumption' in these
phrases.

Therefore, let's tackle the problem linguistically:

'Consumption' is an abstract noun, with its root verb being consume. Therefore, we can convert it
into an abstract noun phrase. If you are not familiar with the concept of abstract noun phrseas, you
may need to read the article concerning nominalization.

fish Consumption -> an abstract noun
the consumption of fish -> an abstract noun phrase
Now, we can use 'that of' instead of 'the consumption of'
the consumption of fish -> that of fish

Let's update our paragraph by converting 'fish consumption'.

Overall, the trend in chicken consumption was upward, while lamb consumption exhibited a downward movement.
Conversely, there were fluctuations in beef consumption, whereas that of fish remained constant.

This is the overview of our task1 response. We have externally compared the overall trends. But we
should now zoom in to describe more detail of the line graphs, writing the body. 

Click on the following link to read the article in which time comparison pattern is discussed within
the body.  




 









