book 11, test 3, task1 showing there must be some alternations in the algorithm 

Trend_based_overview:

noun based descriptions:
1-dummy_there
2-metophoric_verbs
3-predicative_adjective
4-passive_form



Based on Tehranian Polymath's methodology, generally speaking, comparison patterns could be either
interanl or external. If you see only one line on a graph, having taken time divisions into account,
you may compare the line with itself.However, if you zome out, you can see the big picture. This big
picture could be lablled as the overall trend. The overall trend could appear in four different states: upward(adj), downward(adj),
volatile(adj), and stable(adj). 


dummy_there:

Upward and downward trends:
There was an overall downward trend/trajectory/movement in lamb consumption.
There was an overall upward trend/trajectory/movement in chicken consumption.

Volatility:
There was an overall volatile trend in beef consumption.
or
There was volatility in chicken consumption (overall trend).
There were fluctuations in beef consumption (overall trend).


Stability:
There was an overall stable trend in chicken consumption.
There was stability in chicken consumption (overall trend)*.


metaphoric_verbs:
Lamb consumption showed/followed* an overall downward trend/trajectory.
Chicken consumption exhibited/followed* an overall upward trend/movement.
Beef consumption demonstrated an overall volatile trend.
Fish consumption showed an overall stable trend.

*'follow' might be used  for upward and downward trends only. 
A and B followed a similar pattern
A followd a similar but slower trajectory





We may also use the 'overall trend' modified by 'in' plus the items in question
as the subject of our sentence.
 
The overall trend in lamb consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated a downward movement/trajectory.
The overall trend in chicken consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated an upward movement/trajectory.
The overall trend in lamb consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated volatility/fluctuations. 
The overall trend in fish consumption showed/exhibited/demonstrated consistency/statbility. 


Since stability is a sign of neutrality, a linking verb, which expresses neither an action nor an
emotion,  can be used, with the predicate being an adjective, in this case 'constant'. 




predicative_adjecitve:

The overall trend in chicken consumption was upward.
The overall trend in lamb consumption was downward.  
The overall trend in beef consumpton was volatile/inconsistent.
The overall trend in fish consumption was/remained stable.


passive_form:


An overall downward trend in lamb consumption was observed.
An overall upward trend in chicken consumption was observed.
An overall volatile trend in beef consumption was observed.
An overall stable trend in fish consumption was observed. 


Five patterns for overall trend have been discussed so far. There are four items in question. To
write a paragraph, we should assing each item a pattern. Then, start writing:


Now, we need to avoid the redundancy at first by casting aside 'overall'.

To do that, we may use 'overall' as a sentence adverb, modifying the entire paragraph.

Before elminiation:
Overall, there was an upward trend in chicken consumption.
The (overall) trend in lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement/trajectory.
There were significant fluctuations in beef consumption (overall) trend. 
The (overall) trend in fish consumption showed constancy.

After elimination:
Overall, there was an upward  trend in chicken consumption.
The trend in lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were significant fluctuations in beef consumption trend.
The trend in fish consumption showed constancy.

'Trend in' is also used in the first and second sentence. So we may eliminate 'trend' from the second
third, and forth sentences. 

Before elminiation:
Overall, there was an upward trend in chicken consumption..
(The trend in) lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were significant fluctuations in beef consumption (trend).
(The trend in) fish consumption showed constancy.

After elminiation:
Overall, there was an upward trend in chicken consumption..
Lamb consumption exhibited an downward movement.
There were significant fluctuations in beef consumption .
Fish consumption showed constancy.














