Access to potable water has always been a major concern for humankind since the dawn of civilization. To address the issue, the water supply system, whose primary purpose is the constant provision of clean drinking water, has developed. However, this purpose has not always been completely fulfilled due to factors both within and outside the system boundary. In fact, while it is true that conservation plays a major role in the assurance of a constant water supply, the argument that this measure is the best strategy seems to be an oversimplification of a highly complex problem.

Indeed, drinking water scarcity mainly results from the unavailability of natural resources classified as surface water, such as rivers and lakes, atmospheric water (precipitation), and groundwater. Nevertheless, even if these natural resources are identified near an inhabited region, this does not guarantee the constant supply of water to the community due to the fact that, after abstraction, raw water may contain contaminants introduced by sources such as unsustainable agricultural practices, industrial discharges, mining activities, municipal wastewater, urban runoff, deforestation, land-use change, and improper waste disposal. Therefore, the abstracted water should be conveyed to reservoirs where it is stored and treated. The processes involved in storage and treatment could be costly and time-consuming, thereby making the continuous production of clean, potable water an extremely expensive goal. It is clear that not all regions have the infrastructure needed for an efficient water supply system, which requires a huge investment. Only after the treated water is distributed does the role of conservation come into play.

Indeed, consumption habits of individuals do definitely influence the amount of clean water available to a society, with water conservation being a standardized term referring to the prevention of water loss. In fact, water, having been used, enters the sewage system, whose purpose is either to dispose of or to recycle the used water. Even though some wastewater might be recycled through the recycling system, great efforts must be made to get this done. These efforts, however, might not necessarily result in the provision of potable water. In fact, even if some amount of the water can be recycled, the disposal of a huge amount of water consumed is inevitable. This inevitability has made the argument that conservation is the best approach to tackling clean water shortages.

But if considered systemically, the provision of clean water consists of different domains, each of which requires relatively equal attention. Therefore, the conclusion to be drawn from this systemic analysis is that the lack of access to clean water is such a highly complex issue that individual actions, including conservation, are small players whose significance is overshadowed by other influences.
