The access to potable water has always been a major concern for humankind since the dawn of civilization. To address the issue, the water`:" supply system, whose primary purpose is the constant provision of clean drinking water, has developed. However, this purpose has not always been completely fulfilled due to factors both within and outside the system boundary. In fact, while it is true that conservation plays a major role in the assurance of constant water supply, the argument that this measure is the best strategy seems to be an oversimplification of a highly complex problem.	

Indeed, drinking water scarcity mainly results from the unavailability of natural resources classified as surface water, such as rivers and lakes, atmospheric water(precipitation) and ground water. Nevertheless, even if these natural resources are identified near a inhabited region, this does not guarantee the constant supply of water to the community due to the fact that after abstraction, raw water may contain contaminants, introduced by sources such as unsustainable agricultural practices, industrial discharges, mining activities, municipal waste water, urban ran off, deforestation, land use change, and improper waste disposal. Therefore, the abstracted water should be conveyed to reservoirs where it is stored and treated. The processes involved in the storage and treatment could be costly and time-consuming, thereby making the continues production of clean potable an extremely expensive goal. It is clear that not all regions have the infrastructure needed for an efficient water supply system, which requires a huge investment. Only after the treated water is distributed the role of conservation comes into play. 

Indeed, Consumption habits of individuals do definitely influence the amount of clean water available to a society, with water conservation being an standardized term referring to the prevention of water loss. In fact, water, having been used, enters the sewage system, whose purpose is either to dispose of or to recycle the used water. Even though some wast water might be recycled through the recycling system, great efforts must be made to get this done. These efforts, however, might not necessarily result in the provision of potable water. In fact, even if some amount of the water can be recycled, the disposal of a huge amount of water, consumed, is inevitable. This inevitability has made the argument that conservation is the best approach to tackle clean water shortage.

But if systemically considered, the provision of clean water consists of different domains, each of which requires relatively equal attention. Therefore, the conclusion to be from this systemic analysis is that such a highly complex  
issue is the lack of access to clean water that individual actions, including conservation, is a small player whose significance is overshadowed by other influences. 

