total Percentage Comparison Pattern:

In order to tackle the process of describing pie charts smartly, you should find the patterns being
repeated in the sentences describing statistical information represented by this medium.
Tehranian Polymath has identified the algorithms whose sequences create the pattern, labelling them
as "Total Percentage Comparison Pattern".


There are three algorithms which are frequently used in this type of pattern. 

First: percent based description
the formula:
the percent + of + the whole + the bridge + the item


Second: percentage based description
the formula:
the percentage + of + the whole + the adjectival bridge + the item + linking verbs + percent

Third: item based description
the formula:
the item + ARM verbs + percent + of + the whole

Going through IELTS samples, you will learn these algorithms with which you can boost your morale. 

Book9, test3, task1

Percent Based Description:

step one: 
In the first step we should find the whole, which is the population of a country, either Yemen or
Italy. 

the population of Yemen
the population of Italy

For the sake of simplicity, let's choose only 'the population of Yemen' and assing it to 'the
whole'.
the whole = the populatoin of Yemen

step two:

In this step, we should analyze the syntactic skeleton of the whole, rewriting it if possible

syntactic analysis:
'the population' is a noun phrase
'of Yemen' is a propostional phrase with an adjectival function

If a prepositional phrase has an adjectival fucntion, we can get rid of the prepositional phrase by
using a noun adjunct.

Ex: the door of the hotel -> the hotel door

However, we cannot use the same formula for proper nouns. Instead, we should use a proper
adjective, but the problem is that we may not know the ajdectival version of a proper noun, in this
case Yemeni' epecially during IELTS exam. Therefore, we need a more promising formula, which is using a possessive form. 

the population of Yemen -> Yemen's population

Having analyzed 'the whole', we are ready for the next step. 

step three:

the percent + the whole

46.3% of Yemen's popultion

step four:
In this phase, we should find the elements making up the whole and assign them to the variable 'the
element'. 
0-14 years    15-59 years  60 +years
But thses elements are raw. In other words, before assigning them to to variable element, we should
figure out what phrase they are.  

If you are not already familiar with phrases, you may check the articles regarding the importance of
phrase in the IELTS exam.

There three main phrases in English shaping the skeleton of modern English:
1-noun phrases
2-verb phrases
3-prepositional phrases

neither 0-14 years, 15-59 years nor 60+ years fall into the categories of these phrases. Therefore, we
should convert them into at least one of them. 

prepositinal phrase version:


between 0 and 14 years old 
between 15 and 59 years of age
over 6o
in the 0-14 age group
in the 15-59 age group
'between,  over, and in' are both prepositions. 

noun phrase version:

0-to-14-year-olds
15-to-59-year-olds
the 60-and-over age group

modified noun phrases:

people aged between 15 and 59
people aged 60 and over

Again, for the sake of simplicity, let's choose only one of the elemets.

the element = between 15 and 59 years of age(prepositional phrase version)
the element = in the 15-59 age group(prepositional phrase version)
the element = 15-to-59-year-olds(noun phrase version)



step five: 
In this phase, we should build a bridge between 'the whole' and 'the element', starting with the
most neutral verbs. In other words, 'to be verbs' which are literally linking verbs, creating a
bridge. 



But placing just 'is, am, are, was, were, been, or been' is not as simple as it might seem. To use a
'to be verb' we had better understand the concepts of subject complements. If you haven't already,
you may read the article concerning subject complements. 
 

recall the formula:the percent + of + the whole + the bridge + the element
46.3 % of Yemen's population + bride + the element 

There are two versions of the element: 
in the 15-59 age group(perpositional pharse)
15-to-59-year-olds(noun phrase)

Which one do you think is the best option?

To answer this question, you may need to read the article concerning predicate and subject
complements. 

Prepositional phrases are great choices for being subject complements.

Ex: My bike is in the park. 
'in the park' is a prepositional phrase functioning as the subject complement. 

Therefore, we use a 'to be' verb to connect 'the whole' to 'the element. 
Let's give it a shot.

46.3% of Yemen's population is in the 15-59 age group.

Great!!!

Now, let's try the noun phrase version.

46.3% of Yemen's population is 15-to-15-year-olds.

If the above-mentioned sentence sounds awkward to you, trust you feelings. Why??

Look at the following sentences and figure which one is correct:
A human is a man. 
A man is a human.

Syntactic analysis:
'a human' is a noun phrase
'is' is a linking verb describing neither an action nor an emotion
'a man' is also a noun phrase. 

There is a concept in philosophy called hierarchical relationship in which a superordinate
encompasses a breader category which itself includes a smaller entity called a suboridinate. 

Ex: 'a human' is a superordinate to 'a man', with 'a man' being a subordinate to 'a human'. 

In fact, if we use a noun phrase after a 'to be' verb, the noun phrase must be a superoridnate to
the subject, or else the sentece might seem unnatural, not justifiable philosophically speaking.

Therefore, we can say, %93 of prisoners are men; this is because 'men' is a superordinate to
prisoners. 


Percentage Based Description:

the percentage + of + the whole + the adjectival bridge + the item + linking verbs + percent

The percentage of Yemen's population + the adjectival bridge + in the 15-59 age group is/stands at
46.3%. 

Instead of the adjectival bridge, we may use an adjective clause. 

The percentage of Yemen's population who is in the 15-59 age group is/stands at
46.3%. 

Then, we may need to reduce the adjective clause.

The percentage of Yemen's population in the 15-59 age group is/stands at46.3%. 


Item based Description:

the item + ARM verbs + percent + of + the whole

the element (prepositional phrase version)= between 0 and 14 years of age
the element (prepositional phrase version)= in the 0-14 age group
the element (noun phrase version)= 0-to-14-year-olds
the element (noun phrase version)= individuals 


Wiht item in this formula functioning as the subject of our sentece, which verson of elment do you
think we should use for item. If you are not familiar with the types of subjects, you need to read
the article addressing types of subjects.

Yep!!
We cannot use prepositional phrases as the subject of our sentence. Thereofore, the only option
would be the noun phrase. 


15-to-59-year-olds +  account for/represent/make up 46.3% of Yemen's population. 
between 0 and 14 years old account for 
15-to-59-year-olds account for 46.3% of Yemen's population. 
done


Total Percentage Pattern on its own is not enough to describe a pie chart. Indeed, a combination of
Total percentage Pattern and List Comparison Pattern could get the job done. If you haven't read the
article concerning List Comparison Pattern, click on this link.


List Comparison pattern + Total Percentage Pattern(Percentage Based Description) + With and At
numerical addition

The greatest percentage of Yemen's population is in the 0-14 age group, which stands at 50.1%.

We need to reduce the adjective clause.

The greatest percentage of Yemen's population is in the 0-14 age group, standing at 50.1%.

Wiht standing being a semantic extension, we can be pretty sure that it is a linking verb. 

The greatest percentage of Yemen's population is in the 0-14 age group, bing at 50.1%.
The greatest percentage of Yemen's population is in the 0-14 age group, at 50.1%.

Going further down the list:

The greatest percentage of Yemen's population is in the 0-14 age group, at 50.1%. This is followed
by ...

With 'by' being a preposition, we should figure which version of 'the element' we should use. 


the element = between 15 and 59 years of age(prepositional phrase version)
the element = in the 15-59 age group(prepositional phrase version)
the element = 15-to-59-year-olds(noun phrase version)

The only option seems to be the noun phrase version because we need an object for the preposition
by. If you are not already familiar with numinal functions, you may need to read the article
concering nominal funcitons.

 
The greatest percentage of Yemen's population is in the 0-14 age group, at 50.1%. This is followed
by 15-to-15-year-olds whose proportion stands at 46.3%. 


Contrast is the essence of meaningfullness. With Satan being the source of all evils, the importance of God
existance becomes more crucial. Light is the essence of Dark, with day being the essence of night.
Therefore, you should make your essay as contrasting as possible, shifting the reader's attention to
the smallest percentages.


But before describing the smallest percentages, we may take account of other algorithms for
expressing Total Percentage Pattern. Remember, variety is the spice of life. 


(Item Based Descrition + Total Percentage Pattern) + 'At Numerical Addition'

To use Item Based Description, we need to use a subject before ARM verbs.  

the item + ARM verbs + percent + of + the whole

There three versions of 'the element'.

Let's write all of the for the age group over 60 years of age:

over 60 years of age 
people aged 60 and over
 
People aged 60 and over account for the smallest percentage of Yemen's population, at ....

done
 

review


What you have read in this article is an introduction to Total Percentage Pattern, with 'to be
verbs' being used as a bridge between 'the whole' and 'the item'. However, this is not always the
case. In fact, different contexts  may require the introducntion of different adverbial
functions, in which you should use specific verbs.  

Here is the list of the most common contexts:

1-source

bridges: comes from, is derived, originates from 


2-ownership

bridges: belong to, is owned, is held by, commands

3-contribution

keywords: contitute + ARM

4-distribution

keywords: is distributed, is shared, is divided into

5-causation

keyword: leads to, results in, is responsible for, causes, is due to

6-expenditure

keyword: is spent on , goes to, is allocated to, is used for

7-generation/production

keyword: is generated by, produces, creates

8-consumption

keyword: consume, use, utilize

9-purpose
be used for, serve, be intended for, be dedicated for, be allocated to
