
the + most + adjective 
the + second + most + adjective
the + third +  most + ajective
the + least + adjective



Telegram is the most popular social media app in the world. 
But being too generic, this sentence lacks statistical information. Therefore, we
need to add numbers to the previous sentence. 

how to add numbers to the text:
prepositions(with, at) for adding numbers
paranthesis:


You may have seen 'with' as a preposition whereby numbers can be added to a
sentence.

Telegram is the most popular social media app, with 1 billion users worldwide. 

Nonetheless, the use of 'with' in statistical contexts, I believe,  needs
further linguisitics explanation. To tackle the problem, I have tried to reverse-engineer the sentence
so that my inference helps my students have a firmer grasp of the concept.
 
Look at the reverse-engineered version:

Telegram is the most popular social media app.
Telegram has 1 billion users.

Now, to merge to sentence into one, we may use either an adverb or an adjective
clause. 

Let's start with the adjective clause:

Telegram, which has 1 billion users, is the most popular social media app.
There is a usage of with which expresses possession, making 'with' a perfect
candidate for the adjective clause with 'has or has' as a verb.

Telegram, with 1 billion users, is the most popular social media app. 

We may use 'with' in the final position, being non restrictive.

Telegram is most popular social media app, with 1 billion users. 


The use of 'at':

Although less common in IELTS, 'at' is another candidate to add numerical
information to a sentence. 

Telegram is the most popular app, at 1 billion users.

But again the question is where this 'semantic extension' comes from.

Again, I have tried to reverse-engineer the sentence for further clarification:

Telegram stands at 1 billion users.
Telegram is the most popular app.

To merge these to sentences into one sentence again, we may use either an
adjective or an adverb clause.

This time, I am going to use an adverb clause and, then, reduce it.

Because Telegram stands at 1 billino uses, telegram is the most popular app.

Since 'stand' here is a 'linking verb', we may replace it with 'to be' despite
the fact that 'is' dosen't express the metaphorical sense of 'stand' which means
being steady not moving.

Because telegram is at 1 billion users, it is the most popular app.

Now, let's reduce the adverb clause. 

Being at 1 billion users, Telegram is the most popular app. 

Now, let's get rid of 'being' since it is purely a linking verb, putting it in
three different averbial positions: initial, mid, final

starting with initial:

At 1 billion users, Telegram is the most popular app.

mid position:
Telegram, at 1 billion users, is the most popular app.

final position:
Telegram is the most popular app, at 1 billion users.

 




