One of the main concerns of Academic IELTS test-takers is the variety and
complexity of task_1 questions for which they should memorize many unusual
collocations addressing statistical subjects. Thanks to books and
teachers alike, however, these collocations have been broken down into categories based 
on the type of statistical illustrations, namely bar charts, pie charts,
tables, and line graphs. However, this approach may debilitate our cognitive ability
regrading the analysis of statistical information since real classifications go
beyong the type of statistical medium used for conveying data. Therefore, I
have developed a new way of grouping collocations and describing statistical data which
is called "comparison_patterns"  not based on the type of a statistical
medium but rather on our perception, understanding and thinking of the data.  

To give you an overview, I am going to start with some exmaples chosen from the
book 'new insight into IELTS':

"The car is the most common means of transport for British and Australian
schoolchildren, with 65 of students in both countries getting to school in this
way." 

The above mentioned sentence may seem a little complicated at first. But what if
you can classify it into two patterns which repeat over and over during verbal
statistical descriptions. 

At first, let's reverse-engineer the sentence into a simple version so that the
comparison patterns become more evident. 

The car is the most common means of transport for British and Australian
schoolchildren. Indeed, 65 percent of students in both countries get to school in this
way.

The car is the most common means of transport for British and Australian
schoolchildren.
 
With a superaltive adjective used in the first sentence 'the most popular means
of transport", it is not very difficult to label this comparison as "list". 

In the second sentence, however, a precentage of a total is mentioned,
supporting the the first sentence in which a totally different pattern is used.

Look at the next example:

In contrast, only 10 percent of of Singaporean students use cars, and this is the
least common method of transport there.

Not very difficult to guess this time, the same comparison patterns are used in
this sentence as well but in reverse order, compare to the the first example,
total percentage pattern and then list comparison pattern. 






Now that we have separated the complex sentence into two simple sentences, you
may have a more distinctive perception of the statistical description used here.    

The car is the most common means of transport for British and Aurstralian
schoolchildren. 



With a superlative adjective(the most common means of transport) used in the
first sentence, it is not very difficult to  
 







Being a firm believer in flowcharts, at first I want  you to look at the this
representation of comparison patterns:

>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>

Now let's go through them one by one.

1- Internal comparison pattern: 

This is the pattern by which we compare A with A on a scale of time. 

look at the following patterns:

1-1:time-division-comparision-pattern:

Over the first 40 years, the number of hours spent on doing housework
experienced downward trend, decreasing from 50 hours per week in 1920 
to only 20 hours a week in 1960.

1-2:numerical comparison pattern:

The number of hours spent on doing housework in 1920 was more than double that in
1940. 

While in the first example the main focus may be on temporal values, in the second
sentence numerical differences could be the main concern. 

The list of words used for two aforementiond patterns as follows:


2- External comparison pattern:

2-1: list comparison patter:
This is the pattern by which we may compare A with B, C ,.. . Compared to the
internal comparison pattern, this type of comparison is more frequently used in
the IELTS exam. 

Look at the line graphs, and tell me whether we should compare the line graphs
externally if we do care about the ... in a specific year. Indeed, in this type
of pattern, there is a fixed formula the most fundamental element of which is
superlative ajective. 


this pattern is called list comparison pattern. List comparison patterns may
come handy for describing bar chart. However, having alreay seen in the previous
example, exactly the same strategy could be applied to line graphs. 

2-2: total percentage comparison pattern:

While describing pie charts, not only should we use list comparison pattern, but
we also need to compare items making up an entity amounting to 100 percent.

Look at the following example:

Being the most important source of something, oil accounts for 20% of total
energy consumption. 

As you can see, in the first part, the type of comparison pattern is list,
while in the second part of the sentence, compeletely a different comparison
pattern has been used, called total percentage comparison pattern. 

we can also use numerical comparison pattern while comparing items externally. 

ex:
A is three times as big/small as B. 

Hence, classifying the apporach on the basis of how we perceive information
not only can give us a better understanding of data but also a more straight
forward way of thinking about verbally conveying information. 

Nevertheless, this is just the tip of the ice berg. Thus, if you are  willing
to improve your understnaing of comparison patterns and how they work, enter each
part individually so that you can have a firm grasp of the concept. 

 
 
*** I could have started from examples, making reader think about the difference
themselves. 

