Tutorials on map description ielts
top-bottom strategy:

Absolute and relative directions description:

independent clauses:

At the north end of the area lies the countryside. 
To the south of the countryside stands a main road. 
A main road is sandwiched between shops.
Shops are located both to the north and south of the main road.
Housing is positioned in the center as well as in the south of the area.
In the southwest is situated a school. 
Located in the east is a park.
The main road diverges/branches off into two minor roads: an eastern and a western one.
The western minor road meanders south and ends at the school.
The eastern minor road stretches towards the park.

The northern countryside, main road, and shops are proposed to be demolished. 
A dual carriageway will be erected. 
These changes will lead to a complete transformation of the city's current layout. 
The dual carriageway will run from the east to the west. 
The dual carriageway will encircle the area where all the building and facilities of the city will be constructed, except for the southern housing and
school.
In the northeast corner of the space encircled by the dual carriage will be new housing with a minor road. 
A car park is set to be built to the west of the new housing.
To the west of the car park, there will be a shopping center. 
To the west of the shopping center will be a bus station.
To the south of the bus station will be an area for pedestrians only. 
Adjacent to this area will be located shops. 
To the south of the shops, there will be new housing. 
In the southeast corner of the encircled area will be a park.
The park is planned to be downsized/reduced in size. 
 


The maps compare Islip's town center with the top one depicting its current layout and the bottom illustrating its proposed development. 

Overall, the center of Islip city is set to undergo massive changes, with the construction of a dual carriageway and the introduction of new housing, a shopping center, a car park, and a bus station.


At the north end of the area lies the countryside, to the south of which stands a main road, sandwiched between shops, one to its north and
another to its south. Housing, on the other hand, is positioned in the center as well as in the south. Situated in the southwest is a school,
while a park occupies the eastern part. The main road, also, branches off into two minor roads, with the eastern one meandering south and ending
at the school, the western road stretching towrads the park. 

The planned demolition of northern countryside, main road, and shops, paired with the erection of a dual carriageway, will lead to a complete 
transformation of the city's current layout. Running from the east to the west, the dual carriageway will encircle the area where all the
building and facilities of the city center will be introduced, with the southern housing and school planned to be outside the crilce. In the 
northeast of the area encircled by the dual  carriageway will be new housing with a minor road, to the west of which will be a car park whose west
side will be occupied by a shopping center, with a bus station adjacent to this. At the heart of the city center will be a space for pedestrians
only, with shops located to its south. Lastly, the park, reduced in size, will stand in the same location, next to which another area designated for new housing will be located.



