
to be verbs:

plan examples:
Adult fuction books were in the left-hand side of the library.
In the left-hand side of the library were adult fiction books.(inverted)


metaphorical verbs:

primary:

to lie in 
to stand in 

plan examples:
Adult fuction books lay in the left-hand side of the library.
In the left-hand side of the library lay adult fiction books.(inverted)

plan examples:
Adult fuction books stood in the left-hand side of the library.
In the left-hand side of the library stood adult fiction books.(inverted)





plan examples:
Children books sat at the back right-hand corner of the library.
At the back right-hand corner of the library sat children books.


an enclosed position:
to nestle between/among/at/in


linear feature:

metphorical verbs

to cross(transitive)


to extend(intrasitive)
to stretch(intransitive)
to run(intransitive)
to cut through(intransitive)
to meander(intransitive)


prepositions:
from somewhere to somewhere
across somewhere
through somewhere
along somewhere
around somewhere
past somewhere



adjaceny:

to border(transitive):




passive verbs:

to be situated  
to be located  
to be positioned 

plan samples:

a desk for services such as tickets and book returns was positioned at the front righ-hand corner of the library.
at the front righ-hand corner of the library was located a desk for services such as tickets and book returns.(inverted)
located at the front righ-hand corner of the library was a desk for services such as tickets and book returns.(inverted)





passive verbs(describing spatial enclosure):
to be surrounded by
to be encircled by
to be enclosed by



Divergence:

 1. “The road diverges into two smaller lanes, one heading northwest and the other northeast.”
 2. “From the central roundabout, the main road splits, stretching toward the east and southeast.”
 3. “At the southern edge of the town, the highway branches off into multiple roads leading to the west and southwest.” 
Convergence:

 1. “Two major highways converge at the roundabout in the northern part of the city.”
 2. “Roads from the northeast and northwest merge into a single route leading south.”
 3. “In the southern district, several smaller streets join together to form the main road heading eastward.”



