Part 1:
What kinds of bills do you have to pay?

The government, as a system, relies on economic inputs for the provision of public services, such as utilities,
among which the payment of essential ones, comprising water supply, electricity, and gas, is mandatory, with 
people being billed monthly. The timely payment of these fees ensures a steady flow of funding, leading to
constant delivery of theses beasic services, which, in turn, results in social stability and sustainable
development.   

How do you pay your bills-- in cash or by another mehtod?why?

Living in a post industrial society, I do have access to alternative payment methods, with the  mobile phone being
the most commonly used device. Therefore, I, just like other people, use the banking apps on my phone, namely AAP, for 
paying my bills.  

Have you ever forgotten to pay  a bill? 

Even though I live in the capital of Iran, a bustling city, I am so punctual when it comes to the payment of my bills
that I hardly ever had an overdue bill. 


Is there anything you could do to make your bills cheaper? 

There are several energy conservation approaches that I coud adopt. For exmaple, I could use energy-efficient
appliances and also avoid using electricity during peak hours, which is presumably more costly.  


Part 2:
Describe some food or drink that you learned to prepare


Part 3:
What kinds of things can children learn to cook? 

Not being a father, I have never thought about the cooking skill of children. Nevertheless, I believe unless
the child's safety is  at risk, children are free to learn different dishes, includig local cuisines, 
which itself can foster local cultural values among the future generation.

Do you think it is important for children to learn to cook? 

No, I don't think so. Indeed, there are other absolutely essential cognitive, social, and physical skills that
childern should be exposed to, and technically,  I am afraid, cooking is not one of
them. When it comes to emotional skills, which themselves could be recognized as a subcategory within the broader
classification of cognitive skills, childern should learn to tranform their narcissism into empathy, becoming 
more giving and caring. As far as social cognition is concerned, developing the sense of cooperation, the 
art of negotiation, and the patience to receive criticism are extremely crucial.

Do you think young people should learn to cook at home or at school? 

This is an awkward question. Well, where the they aqcuire this skill is not very important unless the 
setting offers something extraordinary or special.  


How enjoyable do you think it would be to work as a professional chef? 

That what you do adds joy to people's life, typically in social settings, gives a great sense of personal 
satisfaction, with yummy dishes being an exellent stimulant of dopamine, a neurotransmitter associated with 
addiction and gratification. 

What skills does a person need to be a great chef?

First and formost, he needs to have trained palate. In addition to this gustatory capablity, his divied, 
selective and supra modal attention can play such an important role in his profession. Aside from these cognitive 
skills, his should be creative, willing to cooperate with other staff and receptive when talking to diners.   


How much influence do celebrity/TV chefs have on what ordinary people cook? 

They are highly influential, I reckon. For  better or worse, the media have significantly affected almost all
aspects of our lives, with our food choices not being an exception. Take Ramsey as an illustraion, whose cooking 
style, herb mixtures, and ingredinet priorities have become mainstream. 


  

