goals:
the consistent distribution of essential services 
the consistent delivery of essential services 



reasoning tree:
Economic inputs are governemnt inputs.
Non-tax revenues are economic inputs.
Service fees are non-tax revenues.
Utility payments are service fees.


bills are means!!!!

reasoning tree:
Public services are government outputs.
Infrastructure services are public services.
essential services are infrastrcture services.
utilities are essential services.


reasoning tree:
distribution
delivery


essential services fulfill basic needs


composition & decomposition
Utilities are grouped into these categories: essential utilities, communcation utilities, public infrustucture
utilities, and environmental utilities.
essential utilities comprise drinking water, natural gas, and electricity supply and waterwater services.

reasoning tree:
Social inputs are government inputs.
behavioral inputs are social inputs.
usage patterns(consumer behavior) are behavioral inputs.

composition & decomposition:
energy conservation, watse reducation,  sustainable practices, and the participation in comminunity initiatives
are classified under behavioral inputs.


composition and decomposition: 
Basic needs are grouped into food, water, air, shelter, saniation, and sleep. 

Dependency_reasoning tree:
nominalized:
the dependence of ouputs on inputs
the dependence of public services on economic inputs
the dependence of infrastructure services on non-tax revenues
the dependence of water supply on the water bill(bill payments)
the dependence of electricity supply on the electricity bill(bill payments)
the dependence of gas supply on the gas bill(bill payments)




means:
mandatory contributions
volunatry contributions



reasoning tree:
mandatory contributions:
utility payments
timely payments


means:
bills



voluntary contributions:
consumer behavior


goals:
the consistent distribution of essential services 
the consistent delivery of essential services 

 

results:
the fulfillment of citizens' basic needs
the steady flow of funding
social stability
sustainable development
the optimization of service management

subject:a goverment


