


goals:
the consistent distribution of essential services 
the consistent delivery of essential services 

reasoning tree:
distribution is a process
delivery is distribution



reasoning tree:
Economic inputs are governemnt inputs.
Non-tax revenues are economic inputs.
Service fees are non-tax revenues.
Utility payments are service fees.



reasoning tree:
Public services are government outputs.
Infrastructure services are public services.
essential services are infrastrcture services.
essential utilities are essential services.


reasoning tree:
distribution
delivery



composition & decomposition
Utilities are grouped into these categories: essential utilities, communcation utilities, public infrustucture
utilities, and environmental utilities.
essential utilities comprise drinking water, natural gas, and electricity supply and waterwater services.
communitcation utilitis(essential) are grouped into landline telephony, internet access, mobile networks, cable/satellite TV
public infrastrcuture utilities are composed of public lighting, strom drainage systems,  and public transportation.


reasoning tree:
Social inputs are government inputs.
behavioral inputs are social inputs.
usage patterns(consumer behavior) are behavioral inputs.

composition & decomposition:
energy conservation, watse reducation,  sustainable practices, and the participation in comminunity initiatives
are classified under behavioral inputs.


composition and decomposition: 
Basic needs are grouped into food, water, air, shelter, saniation, and sleep. 

Dependency_reasoning tree(outputs_inputs):
nominalized:
the reliance of ouputs on inputs

the reliance of public services on economic inputs
the reliance of infrastructure services on non-tax revenues
the reliance of water supply on the water bill payments
the reliance of  electricity supply  on the electricity bill payments
the reliance of  gas supply  on the gas bill payments

the reliance of energy supply on behavioral inputs
the relaince of gas supply on consumer behavior 

dependency_reasoning tree(distribution_repositories):
the reliance of utility distribution on energy resource reserves 
the reliance of natural gas distribution on energy resource reserves 






means:
mandatory contributions
volunatry contributions



reasoning tree:
mandatory contributions:
utility payments
timely payments


means:
bills



voluntary contributions:
consumer behavior


goals:
the consistent distribution of essential services 
the consistent delivery of essential services 

 

results:
the fulfillment of citizens' basic needs
the steady flow of funding
social stability
sustainable development
the optimization of service management

subject:a goverment


