Total percentage pattern on its own is not enough to describe pie charts.
Indeed, Writing pie charts requires a mixture of total pattern and list comparison pattern.


In case of not  having read 'the list comparison pattern' article yet, it is a good time to do so.

Are you ready?? Now, let's combine the 'total percentage comparison pattern' with 'list comparison
pattern'.

Typically, we start from the greatest and then go further down the list.

the first pie chart:

1-percentage based description + list comparison pattern:

recall the percentage based description:

the percentage of Australian household energy which is used by heating is/stands at 42%.

total percentage pattern + list comparison pattern:
The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating.

The question is how we can add numbers to this sentence. To tackle the problem,you need to read "with and at
numercial description", if you haven't already. 

Using the 'with and at numerical description':

Heating stands at 42%.

To combine two separate sentences, we need to use an adjective clause modifying heat. 

The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating. Heating stands at 42%.
The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, which stands at 42%.

we can reduce the adjective clause modifying heating to sound more professional.

The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, standing at 42%.

Stand is semantic extension, meaning that 'heating' doesn't stand at 42%. With 'stand' expressing
neither an action nor an emotion, it is a linking verb. Therefore, it can be replaced with 'to be'.

Let's do that:
The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, which is at 42%.

Let's reduce it:
The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, being at 42%.

Finally, we can get rid of 'being', a pure linking verb.

The greates percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, at 42%.

done 

2- (Percentage based description + list comparison pattern) + item based description:

The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating. Heating accounts for 42% of Australian household energy use.


The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, which accounts for 42% of
Australian household energy use.

Again, we may reduce the adjective clause modifying heating.
The greatest percentage of Australian household energy is used by heating, accounting for 42% of
Australian household energy use.


3- item based description(leveraging the reasoning tree)+ list comparison pattern + item based description

Heating consumes the greatest proportion of Australian household energy.
Heating accounts for 42% of the total.

reduction:

Heating consumes the greatest proportion of Australian household energy, accounting for 42% of the
total.



Now we can go down the list by talking about the second greatest proportion.
Let's choose one of the senetences in the previous part.

Heating consumes the greatest proportion of Australian household energy, accounting for 42% of the
total.

This is followed by water heating. 
Water heating accounts for 30% of energy use(item based description).
Water heating consumes 30% of energy use(item based description(leveraging the reasoning tree)).
Water heating stands at 30%(at numerical description)

Now, we should combine them using an adjective clause.

This is followed by water heating which accounts for 30%. 
reduced:
This is followed by water heating, accounting for 30%.
This is followed by water heating, standing at 30%. -> This is followed by water heating, at 30%. 
 


Now, introducing contrast,  you can now address the item with the smallest percentage and other
items in the pie chart, as well.

The smallest proportion of Australian household energy is used by cooling. 
Cooling stands at 2%. 




