Armed with sophisticated machinery and cutting-edge technological advances, human activities have the capacity to  disrupt the environment, which functions as a complex and adaptive system. This disruption may lead to the loss of biodiversity, with certain species being on the brink of extinction. Some people argue that addressing this issue should be our main environmental concern, as the loss of even a single animal or plant species could result in cascading effects throughout the entire food web of an ecosystem. However, with other environmental issues, such as air pollution, water contamination, and soil erosion, having more direct and immediate effects on human longevity, some believe that tackling these issues is far more important. 

The environment is an interconnected system, in which the survival of each organism relies on its counterparts. Therefore, unless each entity
plays its role inside the food hierarchy, the entire system might collapse. For example, the use of pesticides killing living organisms
indiscriminately could result in the reduction of insectivores' population, on which the life of their predators relies. In addition to this population reduction and possibly extinction, pollinators could be another victim of this agricultural practice, damaging the reproduction of the flora within a geographical zone. Plants are also not an exception, as a decline in algal population could put the entire marine ecosystem on the verge of collapse. Although being an omnivore who can outlive other more vulnerable creatures, human being can be a victim of this ecological imbalance. Therefore, many people believe this systemic disruption is the most important environmental problem of the modern time. 

However, the adverse impact of damaging the food chain within various ecosystems could be a distant threat, while
there are several other important environmental issues that are already destroying millions of lives. Take air
pollution as an example. With lung cancer being the leading cause of death among men, the urgency for the
implementation of environmental policies reducing our reliance on fossil fuels seems undeniable. Aside from air
pollution, water contaminants are also a major threat to human health as well as other marine creatures. For
instance, atrazine, an herbicide and also a xenoestrogen, has such devastating endocrine disruptive effects that it has been banned in Europe while still being used in the United States and other continents. Furthermore, it is essential that sustainable farming be the main standardized means of agriculture practices since soil erosion has already exacerbated the infertility of lands around the world and also airborne pollutants, such as dust storms,  hindering families living in geographical zones susceptible to these types of geological issues. 

In my opinion, considering that the threat of species extinction seems more distant compared to other environmental issues, which can directly and immediately affect human life, purifying water, promoting sustainable farming practices, and using environmentally friendly fuel sources should be prioritized. Nevertheless, this does not mean that the attempts to protect the endangered species can be ignored, but it is safe to say that tackling other imminent environmental threats is more significant. 
