The plans depict the layout of an airpot.
The airport is southwest.
The left plan illustrates the currnet layout of the  airport.
The right plan shows the redeveloped version of the airport. 


At the back left of the airport is/is located/lies the departure lounge.
The arrival lounge is at the right back of the airport.
The arrival lounge has an entrance.
The arrival lounge has an entrance.
Behind the arrival lounge is possport control customs area.
The arrival lounge is to the right of the departure lounge.

The departure lounge has an exit.  
Near the back left-hand corner of the departure lounge is a check-in.
In the beck right-hand corner of the departure lounge is a cafe. 
Behind the departure lounge is security passport control.

In front of Passport Control Customs is the arrival lounge.
To the right of(adjacent to) the Passport Control Customs is security passport control.


In front of security passport control is the departure lounge.
Behind the security passport control is a trapiziod-shaped hallway.
At the back(rear) of the soutwest airport is a rectangular area.
Inside the rectangular area, there two walkways.
The rectangular area is lined with 8 gates.

The overall area of the airport will be expnaded. 
The airport will indtroduce sky train system.
The airport will feature/incorporate a car hire service.

The car hire sevice is set to be added to the front right-hand corner of the arrival lounge. 
The number of gates at the back of the airport will increase from 8 to 18.
This addition will create a Y-shaped extension at the end of the airport. 

The check-in will give way to(be replaced with) a bag drop.
The check-in will move to near back right-hand corner of the departure lounge.
The cafe is planned to relocate to the back right-hand conner of the arrival lounge.
An ATM will is set to be installed(built/erected) on the right side of the arrival lounge. 
The ATM is in front of the cafe.
Shops will be(built)consrtucted in the hallway.
The hallway is behind the the security passport control.
The arrival lounge will an additional entrance.
The departure lounge will have an additional exit. 

 
