
linking types:





ielts plan description:

counterclockwise: 

absolute-direction strategy:

at the back left-hand corner of the library lay CDs, videos, and computer games.
on the left-hand side of the library stood adult fiction books.
a reading room, which was designated for newspapers and magazines, was located at the front left-hand corner of the library.
An entrace was at the front of the library. 
at the front righ-hand corner of the library was situated a desk for services such as tickets and book returns.
on the right-hand side of the library were  adult non-fiction books. 
at the back right-hand corner of the library stood children's books.
located in the heart of the library were tables and chairs.

The layout of the central library was significantly different 20 years ago, with CDs, videos, and computer games at the left-hand corner; adult fiction books on the left-hand side; a reading room at the front left-hand corner; an entrance at the front; a desk for services at the front right-hand corner; adult non-fiction books on the right-hand side; children's books at the back right-hand corner; and tables and chairs in the center.

relative-direction strategy:
At the back left-hand corner of the library lay CDs, videos, and computer games.
In front of the CDs, videos, and computer games stood adult fiction books.
A reading room, which was designated for newspapers and magazines, was located next to the adult fiction books.
To the right of the reading room stood an entrance.
Adjacent to the entrance is an enquiry desk. 
Behind the enquiry desk was located adult fiction books.
situated behind the adult fiction books were children's books.
tables and chairs are sandwiched between adult fiction books and adult non-fiction books.


At the back left-hand corner of the library lay CDs, videos, and computer games, in front of which stood adult fiction books. Next to the adult
fiction books was located a  reading room, which was designated for newspapers and magazines. Next to the adult fiction books stood an entrance,
adjacent to which was an enquiry desk. Behind the enquiry desk was located fiction books. Situated behind the adult fiction books were children
books. Tables and chair were sandwitched between adult fiction books and adult non fiction books.


The given diagrams compare the layouts of the Central Library, with the first illustrating its design 20 years ago and the second depicting its current structure.

Overall, the library has undergone massive changes, with the addition of new spaces featuring new services to the customers.

The layout of the central library was significantly different 20 years ago, with  sections for CDs, videos, and computer games  at the back
left-hand corner and an area for adult fiction books on the left-hand side. Next to the adult fiction section was a reading room designated for 
newspaper and magazines, to the right of which stood an entrance. Adjacent to this was an inquiry desk, behind which was a section for
adult non-fiction books. Situated near the section for adult non-fiction books was an area for children's books, with tables and chairs at the
heart of the library. 


The replacement of the sections for CDs, videos, and computer games with an area for children's fiction books, where storytelling takes place,
and the placement of an L-shaped sofa in the back left-hand corner and another in the front right-hand corner of the room,  is one of the most
striking developments. Additionally, where the adult fiction books were are now all reference books, with the reading room giving way to a
computer room. While the entrance stands in the same location, the enquiry desk has gone, and its place is now a cafe. Also, the transfer of 
the adult fiction section to the right side of the library has been accompanied by the incorporation of an information desk and self-service
machines in the same location. Notably, the introduction of a lecture room has led to the vanishing of the children's book section, with the 
heart of the library having become cleared of the tables and chairs. 
