The transportation system relies on its infrastructure for the transfer of cargoes, livestock, and people. This 
system includes roadways, railways, airports, and, therefore, the distribution of government funds for the maintenance and renovation of these entities has been the subject of an ongoing debate, with some people placing 
a particular emphasis on allocating a greater budget to the railway system compared to roads. 

The main purpose of the transportation system is the safe distribution of industrial inputs and outputs, which fulfills 
the basic needs of people living in a particular area. However, environmental changes might pose a threat to this
constant distribution taking place on roads. For example, torrential rains, heavy fogs, and freezing temperatures might hinder the movement of vehicles, with slippery roads exacerbating the problem. As railways are, in contrast, 
more resilient to these environmental changes, the allocation of a greater proportion of funds to the expansion and
advancement of this mode of transportation, as opposed to roadways, may result in a more promising distribution, 
boosting economic growth and leading to sustainable development. 

Beyond the economic and industrial benefits, statistical evidence also has shown that road collisions claim the lives of hundreds of thousands of people annually, whereas rarely do we see railway accidents make headlines. Therefore,
that railways are a safer means of transport is common knowledge. 
y
To conclude, so great are the advantages of railways over roads that the implementation of this policy 
should be the priority of every country. Nevertheless, the main source of livelihood for millions of people, 
in particular those working in the haulage industry, roadway transportation is here to stay, playing a significant
role in both the tourist industry and other productive sectors of the economy. Nevertheless, more budget allocation to 
railway infrastructure in comparison to that of roadways seems to be a more pragmatic approach. 
  
 
