There has been an ongoing debate over the proportionality of money allocated to infrastructure services, with 
some people believing that a greater percentage of government's budget should be allocated to railways compared to roads. Indeed, railways have proved to be more advantageous than roads when it comes to safety, convenience, addressing the concern of broader demographics, especially with regard to long distance travel.

Let's start with safety. The deaths of thousands of people worldwide are attributed to vehicle collisions typically occurring on roads, while seldom do we hear  news about the loss of lives taking place in trains and other 
transportation means reliant on railways for transferring passengers from one geographical location to another. 
In addition to safety, in case of ease of use and affordability which could stem from subsidies, more demographic 
groups are willing to choose this means of transport over road vehicles, such as cars, buses, motorbikes, as
it offers more comfort, peace of mind, and facilities, such as movies, music, restaurants and cafes in modern carriages, with the responsibility of a safe trip being shouldered by the train staff. Meanwhile, travelers may indulge themselves, making the most of these public services funded by the state budget. 

However, young people might find the use of cars far more appealing, reluctant to use railways, which are objectively safer and more comfortable, a powerful counterargument to the advocates of railways. Aside from the younger generation, the procurement and logistics of industrial outputs, if considered systemically, heavily depend on roads, with the possibility of transferring all the processes into railways being in conceivable, undermining the claim expressed by the railway supporters. 

To conclude, while the merits of greater funding for railways as opposed to roads clearly overshadow its 
demerits, so measured should be the proportionality of the funding preference that roadways are functional 
enough. This  might not jeopardize the livelihood of millions of people, having taken into account the preference of younger people. 
 
 
