With language, used only by human beings, being undoubtedly the most complex cognitive function, the acquisition of a second language requires a great deal of motivation, persistence, perseverance, and intellectual struggles. In fact, 
some people are of the opinion that either traveling overseas or emigrating to find a job in a foreign country is the only reason for this acquisition, while others, opposing the aforementioned perspective, believe that the learning of a new language could be attributed to other reasons, such as personal fulfillment, cultural integrity, and the expansion of knowledge. 

It is a fact that language is the medium through which communication with people from other parts of the world becomes possible. With this possibility comes both job and entertainment opportunities. For example, there could be job vacancies in another country for certain professions, while the same profession has been made redundant in the country of origin. Therefore, desperate to find a job to fulfill his needs, one might decide to learn the language of the country in which there are ample opportunities for his expertise. In addition to seeking employment, traveling could be another incentive. For example, learning English can boost one's self-esteem so that he could interact with people whose origin is different from his. 


However, the learning of a second language might result from personal preferences or the improvement of cognitive abilities, such memory, attention, and the enhancement of synaptic plasticity, the process through which new synapses are formed. The expansion of knowledge through the literature of the second language could be another reason. Furthermore, the desire to learn about cultural values, practices, norms, and traditions of another country might be another contributing factor. 

In my opinion, even though the acquisition of a foreign language could be associated with traveling or working in a foreign land, these are only the reasons that appeal to the general public, while the satisfaction of personal desires, some of which are expressed in this essay, is far more significant. Therefore, I completely disagree with the notion of learning a second language only for opportunities in a foreign land.  
