the importance of architecture 
book8 reading perfect for nominalization teaching:
the use of metadata
modular approach regarding web development
the importance of bash scripting and some linux commands like find, xarg, sed
the most important aim of science should be to improve people's lives(suggestion
or necessity) argumentative senctence; (counter examples and supporting
examples)
semantic or metaphoric extention
counterexamples' purposes -> effects -> (necessity or suggestion)"the purpose of science should be to improve the quality of people's lives
again the pattern and flowchart show to work for lecutres(Mahbobe)
in order to learn to use a command on linux, try to learn the syntax. Syntax is everything. 
always try to learn skills that make the process more effecient even if it can take a lot of time.  


Yes, you can use underscores (_) in HTML file names, and it is perfectly valid. However, there are some best practices to consider when naming files to ensure compatibility, readability, and SEO friendliness.

Valid Examples with Underscores
You can use underscores in file names like:

my_file.html
about_us.html
tehranian_polymath.html
These file names will work fine in most browsers and operating systems.

Best Practices for File Naming
SEO and Readability:

Dashes (-) are preferred over underscores in file names for SEO purposes. Search engines like Google interpret dashes as word separators, whereas underscores may not be treated the same way.
Example: Use tehranian-polymath.html instead of tehranian_polymath.html.
Avoid Spaces:

Spaces in file names can lead to problems because they are encoded as %20 in URLs. Use underscores (_) or dashes (-) instead.
Avoid: tehranian polymath.html
Prefer: tehranian_polymath.html or tehranian-polymath.html
Consistency:

Pick a naming convention (underscores, dashes, or camelCase) and stick with it throughout your project for consistency and easier maintenance.
Lowercase Letters:

Use lowercase letters for file names to avoid potential issues on case-sensitive systems (e.g., Linux).
Descriptive Names:

Ensure file names describe their content. For example:
Good: contact_us.html
Bad: page1.html
Comparison: Underscores vs. Dashes
Feature	Underscores (_)	Dashes (-)
SEO	Less ideal (not word separators)	Recommended (better for search engines)
Readability	Slightly less readable	Easier to read
Compatibility	Fully compatible	Fully compatible
Conclusion
While you can use underscores in HTML file names without any technical issues, using dashes is generally better for SEO and readability. If SEO isn't a concern and you're working in a personal or controlled environment, using underscores is fine.

Let me know if you need further clarification!

<meta name="robots" content="index, follow">

<meta name="author" content="John Doe">
<meta property="og:title" content="IELTS Reading Tips">

