The emergence of automation might have a profound influence on various aspects of (modern)life. Indeed, the odds
of all vehicles being driverless in the forthcoming future are so great that it is plausible to think of a world
in which all cars, buses, and trucks will(would) be autonomous. While this change might lead to casting aside the 
hassle of doing repetitive tasks not requiring cognitive challenges, 
there could be some inevitable damaging consequences of this technological innovation.

The avoidance of doing tasks which are neither physically nor cognitively challenging has been always
an obsession (a persistent goal)for intellectuals and those who care about their time in general even though to cast
aside all basic tasks may seem unachievable. However, recent technological advances stemming from the 
ongoing human struggle for a better life has shed a new light on this possibility. With Telsa, a tech 
company founded in Silicon Valley, introducing its first driverless cars, many countries are making 
this sound investment so that the need to have human beings do this tedious task will disappear in the near 
future. With humans always susceptible to makeing mistakes, the replacement may result in a safer transportaion
system. In addition to safety and the boredem of basic tasks, the creation of new jobs could be another possible
result of this disruptive industry. 

However, large-scale redundancies will be an adverse impact of driverless vehicles, as  working as a driver
is the main source of livelihood of millions of people worldwide. In addition to the  unfavorable economic
effects, technology, in particular AI, has shown that it is not and perhaps will not be flawless all the time,
thereby questioning the possibility and benefits of the replacement of the workforce whose livelihood relies on this
sector of transportation system. The loss of livelihoods and tech errors aside, some people's passion for driving
their own vehicles can not be ignored even if they account for a small percentage of society. 

In conclusion, it is clear that there will a strong opposition to the AI takeover of more aspects of  
of our lives, while the reduction in human intervention in tedious and non beneficial tasks could be
highly beneficial for the socio-economic factors. Nevertheless, while the complete takeover of this task could
be questionable itself, so profound the favorable effects of the tech could be that not only will the negative 
influences will be offset, but also a brighter future with more possibilities for the future generation could
be inferred. 
