One of the main concerns of Academic IELTS test-takers is the variety and
complexity of task_1 questions for which they should memorize many unusual
collocations addressing statistical subjects. Thanks to books and
teachers alike, however, these collocations have been broken down into categories based 
on the type of statistical illustrations, namely bar charts, pie charts,
tables, and line graphs. However, this approach may debilitate our cognitive ability
regrading the analysis of statistical information since real classifications go
beyong the type of statistical medium used for conveying data. Therefore, I
have developed a new way of grouping collocations and describing statistical data which
is called "comparison_patterns"  not based on the type of a statistical
medium but rather on our perception, understanding and thinking of the data.  
ff
Being a firm believer in flowcharts, at first I want  you to look at the this
representation of comparison patterns:

>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>

Now let's go through them one by one.

1- Internal comparison pattern: 

This is the pattern by which we compare A with A on a scale of time. 

look at the following patterns:

1-1:time-division-comparision-pattern:

Over the first 40 years, the number of hours spent on doing housework
experienced downward trend, decreasing from 50 hours per week in 1920 
to only 20 hours a week in 1960.

1-2:numerical comparison pattern:

The number of hours spent on doing housework in 1920 was more than double that in
1940. 

While in the first example the main focus may be on temporal values, in the second
sentence numerical differences could be the main concern. 

The list of words used for two aforementiond patterns as follows:


2- External comparison pattern:

2-1: list comparison patter:
This is the pattern by which we may compare A with B, C ,.. . Compared to the
internal comparison pattern, this type of comparison is more frequently used in
the IELTS exam. 

Look at the line graphs, and tell me whether we should compare the line graphs
externally if we do care about the ... in a specific year. Indeed, in this type
of pattern, there is a fixed formula the most fundamental element of which is
superlative ajective. 


this pattern is called list comparison pattern. List comparison patterns may
come handy for describing bar chart. However, having alreay seen in the previous
example, exactly the same strategy could be applied to line graphs. 

2-2: total percentage comparison pattern:

While describing pie charts, not only should we use list comparison pattern, but
we also need to compare items making up an entity amounting to 100 percent.

Look at the following example:

Being the most important source of something, oil accounts for 20% of total
energy consumption. 

As you can see, in the first part, the type of comparison pattern is list,
while in the second part of the sentence, compeletely a different comparison
pattern has been used, called total percentage comparison pattern. 

we can also use numerical comparison pattern while comparing items externally. 

ex:
A is three times as big/small as B. 

Hence, classifying the apporach on the basis of how we perceive information
not only can give us a better understanding of data but also a more straight
forward way of thinking about verbally conveying information. 

Nevertheless, this is just the tip of the ice berg. Thus, if you are  willing
to improve your understnaing of comparison patterns and how they work, enter each
part individually so that you can have a firm grasp of the concept. 

 
 
*** I could have started from examples, making reader think about the difference
themselves. 

