What kind of bills do you have to pay?

Public services are government outputs.
Utilities are public services supplied by the government.
Utilities are grouped into these categories: core utilities, communcation utilities, public infrustucture utilities, and environmental utilities.
Core utilities comprise water supply, electricity, natural gas, swage and wastewater, and trash collection. 
I have to pay directly for water supply, electricity, and natural gas. 
Landline telephony, interent access, and mobile networks are recognized as distinct types within the broader classification of communicatio utilities.
I also need to pay for these communcation utilities from time to time. 
Landline telephony, internet access, and mobili networks are typically provided by private companies. 
Public lighting, storm drianage, traffic systems, and public transport are considered subcateogries within the public infrustructure services.
Money for these services are provided through government funding. 
Government funding comes from tax revenues and non-tax revenues. 
Tax revenues includes income tax, corporate tax, and also VAT.
Non taxt re

Environmental utilities consists mainly of recycling. 

Utilities, which are grouped into core, communication, public infrustruture and environmental categories, are supplied by the goverment. 
Core utilities comprise water supply, electricity, natural gass, swage and wastewater, and trash collection, among which I have to pay directly 
for water supply, electricity, and natural gas. Similarly, I also need to pay for landline telephony, internet access, and mobile networks, eventhough
these are typically provided by private companies. 






Java format:

Utilities are grouped into the following categories: core utilities, communication utilities, public infrastructor utilities, and environmental 
utilities.
Utilities are grouped into core, communication, public infrastructor, and environmental categoreies. 

Core, communication, public infrastructor,and environmental utilities are calssified as subtypes of all utilities provided either by the 
public or private sectors.
 
Core, communication, public infrastructor, and environmental utilities are recognized as distinct types within the broader utility system. 
Core, communication, public infrastructor, and environmental utilities are considered subcategories within the broader classifiaction of 
supplied utilities. 
