Educational entities typically aim at the child's improvement of cognitive skills, with language being the most
complex congitive function. With the brain's capacity to create new synapses during early stages of life, many 
experts maintain that the acquisition of a second language during these critical stages of neural development
, diminising at the latest stages of primary is shccol, is remarkabely easier, thereby greatly benefiting the 
child. However, this privilage might come with a cost, which might not worth this linguistic ability.

With socioeconomic homogenization leading to  globaliaed industries, the emphasis on learning a second language
, mostly English, in addition to the mother-tongue one has become stronger. Therefore, social entities such as
schools are obsessed with the youger genration's learning a foreign language for the empowerment of the 
economy. However, the outputs are not as satisfactory as it should be. Indeed, with age, phonological and 
syntactic capabilities of human being decline, exacerbating the difficulty of acquiring a second language.
In fact, the brain plasticity and the number of synapses during childhood are so great that the child is 
not actively engaged in the analysis of these language skills. Consequently, he or she can spontanously 
sourmount these hardships while watching cartoons in which a second languages is being spoken. 

However, the conveying of information is mutlifaceted, with visual perception being responsible for
the understanding of text books. In other words, even though the child might be able to percieve 
aural information so remarkably that this seems completely effortless, his or her thirst and desire to 
read diffcult passages might not grow as nearly as his aural acquisition of information in the second 
language. While films, moveis, cartoons and other mediums may not be valuable source whereby information
is conveyed to the person, books, articles, and other printed mediums could be an invaluable repositories 
of knowledge leading to a well-rounded well-read, sophisticated bilinguial. In addtion to the thrivial 
aural information, the learning of a second language in secodary schools will not impaire the child's ability
to use his or her mother-tongue language, while his deeper analysis of written language might enhance his 
abstract thinking. 

In conclusion, despite the ease of picking a second language during early stages of life, the importance of 
mediums conveying precious information outweights this privilage, with the acquisition of the mother tongue
language not being impaired. 
 

